Israel's prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu has pledged to attack Rafa in
the south of the Gaza Strip with or
without a ceasefire deal with Hamas that
is despite international calls for
restraint 1.5 million forcibly displaced
Palestinians are Sheltering in the city
let's go live to Bernard Smith in
occupied East Jerusalem Forest Bernard
so Netanyahu adamant that the Rafa
operation will go ahead despite American
objections yes F not only did he say
that he said ending the war before
reaching our objectives is out of the
question one of those objectives being
the destruction of Hamas as a fighting
force uh Israel believes there are still
four Hamas battalions in Gaza in Rafa
now only yesterday Anthony blinkin was
urging Hamas to take advantage of an
extraordinarily generous proposal that
he said Israel was making that was
asking for 33 captives less than
previously in return for a large number
of Palestinian prisoners plus a 40-day
ceasefire followed by what was phrased a
period of sustained calm the indication
the suggestion being that there was
going to be a very long period of quiet
on offer in Gaza but now Netanyahu has
come out and said he still intends to
invade Rafa at some stage and in an IND
indication of the pressure on him well
Ben he's had a meeting with Edmar benav
the farat national security minister who
said says that he was promised by
Netanyahu that Israel would enter Rafa
promised that the war would not end and
promised there would be no propagate
deal and his far-right Finance Minister
bazel smotrich has said in the knesset
in Israel's parliament a deal with Hamas
is a terrible defeat for Israel and it
gives Hamas a resounding Victory on a
silver platter so if Hamas was asked to
consider yesterday that there was a very
long period of Peace on the table the
suggestions are now from the Israeli
side that it's still intends to go in to
Rafer at some stage thank you Bernard
for that Bernard Smith live there in
occupi D Jerusalem Let's cross over to
hany Mahmud now who is in Rafa in the
south of the Gaza Strip uh what's the
mood there after netanyahu's comments
honey I imagine a lot of Anguish and a
lot of
[Music]
worry yes and it's a quiet right now
received with the great deal of
frustration the eyes of yesterday uh
secretary blinkin made a statement about
a generous offer and it made people feel
that there we are very close to adila
right now with listening to netanyahu's
comment about not a deal whether uh
whether there is a Deal or No Deal he's
going to come to ra very concerning and
quite frustrating for uh the vast
majority of people here the 1.5 million
displaced Palestinians across
overcrowded RAF City since the initial
weeks of of this war just making uh uh
people to lose any left sense of of
safety or hopes for uh for a potential
uh ceasefire deal now the what makes it
worse right now is people feel like
they're like in a limbo right now they
don't know whether there is a deal and
in case there is a deal Netanyahu also
promised that he's going to come to ra
and invade ra which make makes the whole
point of going to a deal quite pointless
that there's a great deal of Angus worry
and and concern and frustration as
things are not clear and when we talk to
people they said uh it's quite similar
to all the past narratives of moving
people and hurting them from one place
to another for the purpose of evacuating
them to Safe zones that eventually
happened to be not safe at all because
people were ended up in areas that they
were killed in in in those safe Zone
designated by the Israeli military what
we look at right now is RA has been bed
all these past months and is still being
monitored by surveillance by drones by
attack of drones by reconnaissance a
crafts causing great deal of noise and
and just grinding down the mental and
and physical health of everyone here on
top of that the Relentless attacks that
almost nonstop attacks for the past
months everywhere it's like it feels
like n has already invaded ra City yeah
the the psychological impact indeed is
huge honey meanwhile
uh prosecutors from the international
criminal court have been interviewing I
understand staff from two Palestinians
uh two hospitals in the Gaza Strip um
that is after the discovery of mass
Graves on the ground of the two
facilities hundreds of bodies were
recovered from three Mass Graves on the
premises of the NASA Hospital in Khan
Unice this month and the remains of
dozens more people were exed at alifa
hospital in Gaza City after an Israeli
Siege of the facility hany what more
have you found out about who the ICC
investigators interviewed at alifa and
Naser and what about
[Music]
precisely what we learned so far they
identies of those uh being interviewed
for the IC for the purpose of
investigation and collecting evidence of
of what happened has not haven't been
disclosed yet they are protected and
given the sensitivity of the matters
this this is something that people have
uh suppressed over the past few weeks
and the time when the Israeli military
not only stormed Naser hospital and
destroyed the vast majority of its
facility but also it happened in aifa
hospital in the past months and also in
the northern area where Mass grave was
discovered at a checkpoint that set up
by the Israeli military what we know so
far is from the reports that we did and
the what what we have been able to
document that
hospital and from a shifa hospital it it
goes very consistent with the the
testimonies that we heard from nurses
and medical staff and evacuees who were
inside these Health Facilities when they
were uh when they were under the
military Siege and when they were
stormed by the Israeli military they
describe horrific scenes of what Israeli
military did to patients injuries and
evacuates inside the hospital that is
that that went very very consistent with
what we covered and documented on the
ground and consistent with the
description that was given by the civil
defense department either in Khan un
City or the northern part of Gaza
City thank you very much for the update
that's Al jazer hanim Mahmud reporting
their live from Rafa in southern
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler